## Basic Course Information

* Department: Civil and Environmental Engineering
* Title: CEE 492: Data Science for Civil and Environmental Engineering
* Credits: 3 for Undergraduates, 4 for Graduate Students
* Semester: Fall 2024
* Meeting time and location: 12-1:20 on Tuesdays and Thursdays in Room 1017 CEE Hydrosystems.
* First day of instruction: 8/26/2024
* Last day of instruction: 12/11/2024
* Important links: 
  * [PrairieLearn](https://us.prairielearn.com/pl/course_instance/137035/assessments) (for assignments)
  * [CampusWire](https://campuswire.com/c/G87945CC6/feed) (for announcements and discussion)

## Basic Instructor Information

* Instructor: [Prof. Christopher Tessum](https://cee.illinois.edu/directory/profile/ctessum)
* Office: 3213 Newmark Civil Engineering Laboratory
* Teaching assistant: [Jialin Liu](https://ctessum.cee.illinois.edu/author/jialin-liu/)
* Office hours: 
  * Tessum: 11:00-12:00 on Thursdays in Room 1017 CEE Hydrosystems
  * Liu: 13:20-14:20 on Tuesdays in Room 1017 CEE Hydrosystems or the common area outside of it.

## Description of the course

Welcome to CEE 492: Data Science for Civil and Environmental Engineering!
This semester, you will learn to leverage data to study civil and environmental engineering problems, identify patterns, and make actionable insights.
This course includes training in computational thinking and exploratory data analysis; data processing techniques including singular value decomposition, principal component analysis, and fourier and wavelet transforms; and machine learning techniques including k-means, classification trees, neural networks, and neural differential equations.

This course differs from other available machine learning and data science courses in that it focuses on civil and environmental engineering problems and the methods used to solve them. In particular, this course emphasizes working with dynamical systems that generate spatiotemporal data, which are common in physical science but less common in data science when applied to other disciplines.

By the end of the semester, you will be able to:

1. Use software tools for data processing and visualization, signal processing, and machine learning to
2. Retrieve, manipulate, and analyze data; and
3. Make inferences and predictions about the built and natural environment.

Specifically, upon completion of this course, you should be proficient in the following **course learning objectives**:

1. When given a mathematical equation or the description of an algorithm, to use computational thinking to create a software implementation of that equation or algorithm.
2. To carry out exploratory data analysis to visualize, summarize, and explain an unfamiliar dataset.
3. To use a distributed version control system to collaborate on a project.
3. To choose and execute coordinate transforms represent and interpret the underlying patterns in a dataset.
4. To apply the gradient descent algorithm to minimize error between a model prediction and observations.
5. To design and implement machine learning models to cluster or predict a dependent variable in a dataset when given independent variables.
6. To monitor machine-learned models for bias using disaggregated testing.

This course will help you to gain the skills and tools necessary to make the most of the great increases in the amount and quality of data related to civil and environmental engineering that is being collected and stored.

Because data science methods are used across a number of different industries and instructional materials are readily available, this course will include readings and video lectures from across the internet.
We will focus our face-to-face time on hands-on practice with the tools and concepts we are learning in this class.
For students taking the class for four credits, it will include semester-long group projects; students will choose project topics at the beginning of the semester and will apply the concepts learned in the class to their projects as the semester progresses.

## Prerequisites

* [CEE 202](https://cee.illinois.edu/academics/courses/cee202), or equivalent introduction to probability and statistics;
* CEE [300](https://cee.illinois.edu/academics/courses/cee300), [330](https://cee.illinois.edu/academics/courses/cee330) or [360](https://cee.illinois.edu/academics/courses/cee360-120208), or equivalent grounding in physical science and differential equations; and
* [CS 101](https://cs.illinois.edu/academics/courses/cs101) or equivalent introduction to computer science.

## Course Structure

This course is structured as a series of modules, with each module containing recorded lectures, readings, and quizzes to be completed before each class meeting.
Class meetings will be in-person, and will focus on hands-on application of the material that was covered in recorded lectures and readings through the use of in-class worksheets.
The in-class worksheets will be completed in groups and will be graded. 
If students do not finish the worksheet during class or are absent, up to 70% of points can be made up by completing the post-class worksheet review. 
Online students can get 100% of points by completing the post-class worksheet review.
Near the beginning or the semester, 4-credit students will choose a topic for a project, which they will work on throughout the semester, applying the concepts that we learn in class.
Additionally, students will complete homework assignments and exams.

## Course Requirements and Assessment Overview
* Grades will be assigned based on several types of deliverables:
  * Pre-lecture quizzes: 5% of final grade
  * In-class worksheets: 11% of final grade. (70% of points can be made up by completing the post-class worksheet review. Online students can get 100% of points by completing the post-class worksheet review.)
  * Homeworks: 20% of final grade
  * Midterm exams: 39% of final grade (13% each).
  * Course project (4-credit students only): 25% of final grade: 
    * 3% for project selection and introduction, 
    * 3% for exploratory analysis, 
    * 3% for preliminary modeling, 
    * 3% for report rough draft, 
    * and 13% for final report and presentation.
  * Extra credit: Students can create "Tiktok-style" videos explaining or reviewing the concepts covered in the course. For each module in the course, the creator of best video (as judged by the instructor) will receive **1% extra credit** toward their overall grade for the class. Videos with multiple authors can split the extra credit among the authors.
* The general expectation is that graduate students will register for 4 credits and undergraduates can choose between 3 and 4 credits, but this is not a requirement. For 3-credit students, there will be no course project and the weights of the other assessments will be scaled accordingly.
* Letter grades will be assigned according to the following scale:
  * 97-100: A+
  * 93-96.9:	A
  * 90-92.9:	A-
  * 87-89.9:	B+
  * 83-86.9:	B
  * 80-82.9:	B-
  * 77-79.9:	C+
  * 73-76.9:	C
  * 70-72.9:	C-
  * 67-69.9:	D+
  * 63-66.9:	D
  * 60-62.9:	D-
  * Below 59.5:	F

## Absence Policy

Occasionally you may need to miss class owing to illness, conference travel, family emergencies, or other reasons. If the absence is deemed to be for a worthy reason, it can be considered an excused absence. Here is how we will handle excused absences:

1. Once you know you will be missing class, send me a message letting me know how long (if you know). It will work best if you also provide some documentation, e.g. test result, conference registration, etc.

2. For days that you miss class, instead of completing the in-class "worksheet" assignment, instead complete the "post-class worksheet review" that will be available immediately after class ends. It's the same worksheet but you can do it individually and it comes with a video that walks you through it. (If you prefer to organize a zoom session with your groupmates and participate in class remotely, that's great and strongly encouraged, but we won't be having a central zoom session because it just doesn't work well.)

3. By default, up to 70% of the points you get on the "worksheet-review" will count toward the worksheet score. So if you get 50% on the worksheet and 100% on the worksheet review, then your final worksheet score will be 50 + (100-50)*0.7 = 85%. However, for an excused absence (e.g. one registered in the manner above) 100% of worksheet-review points count toward the worksheet. (Note that there is not a huge difference in points between an excused absence and an unexcused one.)

4. The deadline for the worksheet review is usually a couple of weeks after class, so it is okay to wait until you're feeling better to complete it. However, we do have a pretty hard end of the semester at the beginning of December, and things can start to pile up if you fall behind. Come talk to me if that becomes an issue.

## Homeworks and Exams

Homeworks and Exams will be done through [PrairieLearn](https://us.prairielearn.com/pl/course_instance/137035/).
In assigning these types of homeworks and exams, I'm placing emphasis on **mastery**.
The idea is to keep doing questions until you master the underlying concept or method. Once you do, you should be able to answer these questions very quickly.

**Important**: When you log in to PrairieLearn, choose "Log in with Illinois" rather than "Log in with Google" or "Log in with Microsoft".
The UIUC login is the only one that will work.

### Homeworks

For the homeworks, I try to encourage preparation for class before a module starts, so if you finish all of the questions completely before the first meeting time for the module, you will receive 110% of the available points.
Questions finished between the first and second meeting times of the module receive 100%, and questions finished up to two weeks after the module ends can receive 80%.

Note that new homeworks are assigned most weeks, so if you don't stay ahead, it can be easy to fall behind.

### Exams

Exams are also administered using PrairieLearn. 
For exams, partial credit usually isn't given for individual problems, but you can try each problem more than once, with a decreasing number of points possible for each try.

## Learning Resources
* Students are expected to bring a laptop to class, and have use of one and an internet connection for homeworks and pre-class activities.
* There is no required textbook to purchase. However, much of the course follows the book *[Data Driven Science and Engineering](http://www.databookuw.com/)* by Brunton and Kutz. The book includes a freely available [pdf version](http://www.databookuw.com/databook.pdf) and lecture videos, is also available for sale in hardcover and ebook formats.
* The course also includes content from the [Julia learning resources](https://julialang.org/learning/), which is also a good resource for learning Julia in general. The free course *[Introduction to Computational thinking](https://computationalthinking.mit.edu/Spring21/)* from MIT is particularly well done.
* For students that want to continue beyond the material covered in this course, there is [*Parallel Computing and Scientific Machine Learning*](https://github.com/mitmath/18337) (another course from MIT) and [*Deep Learning*](https://www.deeplearningbook.org/) by Goodfellow, Bengio, and Courville.
