### Policies

#### Inclusive Environment

The effectiveness of this course is dependent upon the creation of an encouraging and safe classroom environment. Exclusionary, offensive or harmful speech (such as racism, sexism, homophobia, transphobia, etc.) will not be tolerated and in some cases subject to University harassment procedures. We are all responsible for creating a positive and safe environment that allows all students equal respect and comfort. I expect each of you to help establish and maintain and environment where you and your peers can contribute without fear of ridicule or intolerant or offensive language.

If you witness or experience racism, discrimination, micro-aggressions, or other offensive behavior, you are encouraged to bring this to the attention of the course director if you feel comfortable. You can also report these behaviors to the Bias Assessment and Response Team (BART) (https://bart.illinois.edu/). Based on your report, BART members will follow up and reach out to students to make sure they have the support they need to be healthy and safe. If the reported behavior also violates university policy, staff in the Office for Student Conflict Resolution may respond as well and will take appropriate action. 

#### Accommodations
To obtain disability-related academic adjustments and/or auxiliary aids, students should contact both the instructor and the Disability Resources and Educational Services (DRES) as soon as possible. You can contact DRES at 1207 S. Oak Street, Champaign, (217) 333-1970, or via email at disability@illinois.edu.

#### Participation
Active participation in the online learning environment is vital to your success in this course. Depending on your course, you may be asked to engage in online discussions and other interactive learning environments that invite your active participation and involvement with other students and your instructor.

#### Student Commitment
By registering for this online course, you commit to self-motivated study, participation in online course activities, and timely submission of all assignments. Furthermore, you commit to accessing the course website and checking email at least four days per week (daily for 4-week courses), as well as to devoting at least 6–8 hrs./week (16-week course), 12–16 hrs./week (8-week course), or 24–32 hrs./week (4-week course) to preparing for each module and completing the required assignments and readings.

#### Deadlines
If you are unable to meet a particular deadline, it is your responsibility to make prior arrangements with the instructor for that given week. Otherwise, work submitted later than 1 day late will receive 10% penalty, and work submitted later than 2 days late will not be considered for grading unless consent has been given by the instructor.

#### Regrades

Requests for regrading homeworks, exams, and project deliverables must be submitted in writing within one week of receiving the initial grade.

#### Instructor Responses
##### Instructor Feedback Turnaround Time
Questions posted to the [Course Help Discussion Forum](https://compass2g.illinois.edu/webapps/discussionboard/do/forum?action=list_threads&course_id=_52490_1&nav=discussion_board_entry&conf_id=_260881_1&forum_id=_442875_1) generally will be answered within 48 hours. If possible, students are encouraged to answer questions posted by other students to the [Course Help Discussion Forum](https://compass2g.illinois.edu/webapps/discussionboard/do/forum?action=list_threads&course_id=_52490_1&nav=discussion_board_entry&conf_id=_260881_1&forum_id=_442875_1), rather than waiting for an instructor's response.

Assignments submitted online will be reviewed and graded by the course instructor within 5 business days. Exams, essays, and term papers will be graded within 10 business days. If your instructor is unable to meet this timeline, students will be notified.

##### Contacting the instructor
For the fastest response response, the best way to contact the instructor is by attending office hours or posting questions to the [Course Help Discussion Forum](https://compass2g.illinois.edu/webapps/discussionboard/do/forum?action=list_threads&course_id=_52490_1&nav=discussion_board_entry&conf_id=_260881_1&forum_id=_442875_1).

The instructor will not respond to phone calls. The instructor will respond to email messages within 48 hours of receiving them unless the instructor notifies you ahead of time of an inability to do so. When sending email, include a subject line that identifies the course number and nature of your question. The instructor may not respond to questions sent to him or her that should be posted in the [Course Help Discussion Forum](https://compass2g.illinois.edu/webapps/discussionboard/do/forum?action=list_threads&course_id=_52490_1&nav=discussion_board_entry&conf_id=_260881_1&forum_id=_442875_1). Please don't be offended if you are asked to forward your question to this location.

##### Responding to the Discussion Forums
The role of the instructor within the discussion forums is to help facilitate discussion by providing probing questions, asking for clarification, and helping solve conflicts as necessary. The instructor will not respond to every post. You are encouraged to share your thoughts, experiences, and ideas with each other as well.

#### Academic Integrity
Academic dishonesty will not be tolerated. Examples of academic dishonesty include the following:

* Cheating
* Fabrication
* Facilitating infractions of academic integrity
* Plagiarism
* Bribes, favors, and threats
* Academic interference
* Examination by proxy
* Grade tampering
* Non-original works
* Should an incident arise in which a student is thought to have violated academic integrity, the student will be processed under the disciplinary policy set forth in the Illinois Academic Integrity Policy. If you do not understand relevant definitions of academic infractions, contact your instructor for an explanation within the first week of class.

Giving and receiving advice on projects and homework assignments is acceptable and encouraged. However, it is expected that help be given in general terms and in the form of natural language sentences (for example, English) rather than in the form of mathematical equations, algorithms, computer code, or anything else that could be copied and pasted into the recipient's answer. Similarly, students are encouraged to consult the Internet, but copying and pasting code from the Internet and submitting it for the class is not acceptable. The work that each student submits is expected to be their own, written with their own hand or typed on their own keyboard.

#### Copyright
##### Student Content
Participants in University of Illinois courses retain copyright of all assignments and posts they complete; however, all materials may be used for educational purposes within the given course. In group projects, only the portion of the work completed by a particular individual is copyrighted by that individual. The University of Illinois may request that students' materials be shared with future courses, but such sharing will only be done with the students' consent. The information that students submit during a course may, however, be used for the purposes of administrative data collection and research. No personal information is retained without the students' consent.

##### Non-student Content
Everything on this site and within University of Illinois courses is copyrighted. The copyrights of all non-student work are owned by the University of Illinois Board of Trustees, except in approved cases where the original creator retains copyright of the material. Copyrights to external links are owned by or are the responsibility of those external sites. Students are free to view and print material from this site so long as

* The material is used for informational purposes only.
* The material is used for noncommercial purposes only.
* Copies of any material include the respective copyright notice.
* These materials may not be mirrored or reproduced on non-University of Illinois websites without the express written permission of the University of Illinois Board of Trustees. To request permission, please contact the academic unit for the program.

#### Student Behavior
##### Student Conduct
Students are expected to behave in accordance with the penal and civil statutes of all applicable local, state, and federal governments, with the rules and regulations of the Board of Regents, and with university regulations and administrative rules.

For more information about the student code and handbook, see the CITL course policies page.

##### Netiquette
In any social interaction, certain rules of etiquette are expected and contribute to more enjoyable and productive communication. The following are tips for interacting online via email or discussion board messages, adapted from guidelines originally compiled by Chuq Von Rospach and Gene Spafford (1995):

* Remember that the person receiving your message is someone like you, deserving and appreciating courtesy and respect.
* Be brief; succinct, thoughtful messages have the greatest effect.
* Your messages reflect on you personally; take time to make sure that you are proud of their form and content.
* Use descriptive subject headings in your emails.
* Think about your audience and the relevance of your messages.
* Be careful when you use humor and sarcasm; absent the voice inflections and body language that aid face-to-face communication, internet messages are easy to misinterpret.
* When making follow-up comments, summarize the parts of the message to which you are responding.
* Avoid repeating what has already been said; needless repetition is ineffective communication.
* Cite appropriate references whenever using someone else's ideas, thoughts, or words.

#### Communications
##### Daily Contact
Your daily contact should be via the discussion forums in our Learning Management System and via email.

##### Course Questions
Questions pertaining to the course should be posted in our [Course Help Discussion Forum](https://compass2g.illinois.edu/webapps/discussionboard/do/forum?action=list_threads&course_id=_52490_1&nav=discussion_board_entry&conf_id=_260881_1&forum_id=_442875_1). You can get to this forum from the course home page. Posting questions here allows everyone to benefit from the answers. If you have a question, someone else is probably wondering the same thing. Anyone submitting a question via email will be directed to resubmit the question to the [Course Help Discussion Forum](https://compass2g.illinois.edu/webapps/discussionboard/do/forum?action=list_threads&course_id=_52490_1&nav=discussion_board_entry&conf_id=_260881_1&forum_id=_442875_1). Also, participants should not hesitate to answer questions posed by peers if they know the answers and the instructor has not yet responded. This not only expedites the process but also encourages peer interaction and support.

##### Personal and Grade-Related Questions
Questions of a personal nature should first be sent to the instructor's email address (listed on the Instructor Information page). When sending email, include a subject that identifies the course number and nature of your question.

##### Emergencies
If you have an emergency that will keep you from participating in the course, please notify your instructor by using the instructor's email address (listed on the Instructor Information page). Provide callback information in your email (if necessary). You should also notify your program director of any emergencies.

##### Zoom
Zoom is a tool that allows multiple people to join together simultaneously via a computer to text chat, audio chat, video chat, collaborate on a digital whiteboard, and even share their computer desktops with one another. The instructor's Virtual Office (when available) makes use of Zoom.

#### Instructor's Virtual Office
Another way to communicate with the instructor is to make use of the Virtual Office hours through the Zoom Interface. The instructor will be available for office hours via Zoom on the dates and during the times listed on the Virtual Office page in the Syllabus.

#### Announcements
The Announcements forum serves as a way for your instructor and University of Illinois administrators to make announcements within our online learning environment. Announcements posted here will also be sent to your Illinois email address, so be sure to check your email or the Announcements forum at least once a day to see whether any new announcements have been made.

#### Sexual Misconduct Policy and Reporting
The University of Illinois is committed to combating sexual misconduct. Faculty and staff members are required to report any instances of sexual misconduct to the university’s Title IX and Disability Office. In turn, an individual with the Title IX and Disability Office will provide information about rights and options, including accommodations, support services, the campus disciplinary process, and law enforcement options.

A list of the designated university employees who, as counselors, confidential advisors, and medical professionals, do not have this reporting responsibility and can maintain confidentiality, can be found in the Confidential Resources section. Other information about resources and reporting is available at wecare.illinois.edu.

#### Student Wellness Resources
The University of Illinois strives to promote student success through the support of student psychological and emotional well-being. Please take advantage of the resources listed on the Student Affairs website. 