## Assessment Instructions and Rubrics

### Discussion Forum Instructions and Rubric

This section describes how to participate in the discussion forum, and how your posts will be graded.

#### Initial Post

In the Discussion Forum for the module, compose an initial post that responds to at least one of the questions above. 
Your initial post is your opportunity to engage with the prompt in a way that is unique to you. Some ways to accomplish that include:

* Connect with the prompt in a personal way by incorporating personal anecdotes.
* Reflect on any potential biases you may have based on your experiences.
* Consider any potential biases in the information presented in the prompt itself.
Be open to different points of view by providing some suggestions of what those might be.

Your initial post must meet the following requirements:

* Include at least **200 words**, excluding any references.
* Use appropriate evidence from the readings and lessons to support your claims and judgments.

#### Response Posts

Post at least 2 responses in the same thread. Your replies should stimulate more in-depth discussion about the topic. Some ways to accomplish that include:

* Clarify and/or extend your peers' line of thinking.
* Compare/contrast their views on the topic with your own.
* Suggest/question what explanation(s) you think your peers might be missing that could strengthen their arguments.
* End your response with a question to further the dialogue.

Your response posts should meet the following requirements:

* Include at least **50 words**, excluding references.
* Use of appropriate evidence from the readings and lessons to support your claims and judgments.


#### Submission Directions
* Access the discussion board and begin a new thread.
* Response Post: Select the title of any post to review it and read any replies already submitted. Click Reply next to any post to compose a reply.

#### Evaluation
This activity is worth 40 points: 20 points for your initial post and 10 points for each response post. Please see the rubric below for detailed information about how your posts will be graded.

##### Discussion Forum Rubric

| Contributions | Description | Initial Post Points Assigned | Response Points Assigned |
| -- | -- | :--: | :--: |
Provocative |  Response goes beyond simply answering the prompt; attempts to stimulate further thought &  discussion | 20 | 10 |
| Substantial | Response provides most of the content required by the prompt, but does not require further analysis of the subject | 15 | 7.5 |
| Superficial | Response provides obvious information without further analysis of the concept; lacks depth of knowledge or reasoning | 10 | 5 |
| Incorrect | Response does not accurately address the prompt; rambling and/or without consistency | 5 | 2.5 |
| None | No response provided to the prompt within the associated timeframe | 0 | 0 |