### Course Project

This course includes a semester-long project, where you will apply the skills we learn in this class to apply data science to a problem relevent to Civil or Environmental Engineering.
Project topics will be selected from a combination of student-proposed topics and topics selected by the instructor.
The projects will include some individual components and some team components, with teams comprised of all the students assigned to each topic.
The project will include a literature review, an exploratory data analysis midterm presentation, a kaggle competition, and a final report and presentation.

#### Project literature review

By the time this literature review is completed, students should be able to:

* Identify previous examples of work related to a given project,
* Describe what previous studies did, and
* Critique the previous studies, describing strengths and weaknesses.

Working as a team, students will identify prior work related to the project topic from sources including peer-reviewed literature and [ArXiv](https://arxiv.org/) (and other ArXiv-like repositories such as [EarthArXiv](https://eartharxiv.org/)).
Students will then individually write an at least 400-word review of one of the articles. 
Instructions about how to write a literature review are available [here](https://www.scribbr.com/dissertation/literature-review/), for example.

Literature reviews should be submitted to the "course project" section on the compass2g course site.

##### Literature review rubric

|  | Exceptional (100%) | Satisfactory (85%) | Needs work (70%) | Incomplete (<60%) 
| -- | -- | --   | --           | --         | -- 
| Description (10 pts) | Clearly describes the important aspects of the study methods and results | Description is clear but not complete, or complete but not clear | Description is missing key aspects of study methodology and results | Description missing majority of important aspects
| Critique (10 pts) | Clearly discusses the paper's strengths and weaknesses in meeting the goal of the student's project | Critique is clear but not complete, or complete but not clear | Critique misses important strengths and weaknesses | Critique does not accurately describe strengths and weaknesses 


#### Project exploratory data analysis

After completing this exploratory data analysis, students should be able to:

* Interpret a dataset in the context of using it to answer a question
* Select and implement statistical and graphical tools for describing a dataset
* Describe and defend reasons for choosing specific tools
* Analyze visual and statistical results to draw conclusions about the dataset

Each project will include a scientific question to be answered, a dataset relevant to the question, and a machine-learning method used to answer the question using the dataset. 
The second deliverable for the project is an expoloratory data analysis (EDA) of the dataset your project which uses visualizations and statistics to summarize the main characteristics of the dataset. 

The EDA should be done by students individually as a notebook in the [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/) data science platform.
See [here](https://www.kaggle.com/pavansanagapati/a-simple-tutorial-on-exploratory-data-analysis) for an example EDA.
The EDA notebook should read like a narrative, with natural language descriptions, code, statistics, and visualizations all interspersed with each other.

Each group member should perform and submit their own EDA.
However, as detailed below, part of each student's score is based on the diversity of approaches taken by the different members of each project group, and part of each student's score is based on the average score of all members of the group.
(Group members that do not submit the assignment will not be included in the overall average.)
So it is in the best interest of group members to work together to ensure that a variety of different approaches are represented by the individual submissions, and to ensure that the individual submissions are all of high quality.

##### Exploratory data analysis rubric

|  | Exceptional (100%) | Satisfactory (85%) | Needs work (70%) | Incomplete (<60%) 
| -- | -- | --   | --           | --         | -- 
| Technical content (20 pts) | Statistical and visual representations of the data thoroughly characterize all aspects of the data relevant to the project | Representations of the data characterize almost all relevant aspects of the data | Representations are present but not thorough | The dataset is not well described
| Graphical representation (10 pts) | Uses best practices for graphical display in all cases | Graphics mostly follow best practices, with some exceptions | Graphics are interpretable but do not follow best practices | Graphics are not interpretable 
| Documentation (10 pts) | The document has a narrative flow, interspersing a well written introduction, method description including reasons for choosing the methods used, and discussion amidst the code and results | The document has a narrative flow but writing is not completely clear or some aspects are missing | Some documentation is included but it is not thorough | Documentation is not included 
| Group diversity (1 pt) | Group submissions represent a diverse set of approaches | There is some diversity of approaches among group members | Group submissions are similar | Group submissions are very similar
| Group average (1 pt) | Average of group member scores == 100% | Average of group member scores == 85% | Average of group member scores == 70% | Average of group member scores < 60%

#### Project Kaggle competition

After completing this competition, students should be able to:

* Choose a machine learning algorithm appropriate for a given dataset and question
* Implement and train the algorithm to a high degree of accuracy while avoiding overfitting
* Interpret the model results and performance

The class projects will be set up as Kaggle competitions, open only to members of this class. 
Working individually, they will choose an algorithm and use it to answer the class question.
Students should extend the documentation narrative from their EDA to cover methods, results, and discussion for their learning algorithm.
[Here is an example](https://www.kaggle.com/christophertessum/house-price-example) of a combined EDA and model prediction.
Only some of the project datset will be made available for training the model on; the rest will be held separately to test the model results.
Students will be able to see how their model performance compares to that of the other students in their project team.

At the end of the project period, the student with the highest score in the competition gets 2 points extra credit on this project component. 
If there is a tie for first place, or if there are less than 4 students in the project group, no extra credit is awarded.

Each group member should submit their own entry to the competition.
However, as detailed below, part of each student's score is based on the diversity of approaches taken by the different members of each project group, and part of each student's score is based on the average score of all members of the group.
(Group members that do not submit the assignment will not be included in the overall average.)
So it is in the best interest of group members to work together to ensure that a variety of different approaches are represented by the individual submissions, and to ensure that the individual submissions are all of high quality.

##### Kaggle competition rubric

|  | Exceptional (100%) | Satisfactory (85%) | Needs work (70%) | Incomplete (<60%) 
| -- | -- | --   | --           | --         | -- 
| Algorithm (20 pts) | A best-in-class algorithm is chosen and implemented correctly | An appropriate alorithm is chosen and implemented correctly | An appropriate algorithm is chosen but not implemented correctly | An inappropriate algorithm is used 
| Training (20 pts) | The algorithm is tuned to maximize predictive accuracy while avoiding overfitting | The algorithm is trained correctly but slightly underfits or overfits | There is substantial over- or under-fitting | The algorithm does not fit the data 
| Documentation (10 pts) | The document has a narrative flow, interspersing a well written introduction, method description including reasons for choosing the methods used, and discussion amidst the code and results | The document has a narrative flow but writing is not completely clear or some aspects are missing | Some documentation is included but it is not thorough | Documentation is not included 
| Group diversity (5 pts) | Group submissions represent a diverse set of approaches | There is some diversity of approaches among group members | Group submissions are similar | Group submissions are very similar
| Group average (5 pts) | Average of group member scores == 100% | Average of group member scores == 85% | Average of group member scores == 70% | Average of group member scores < 60%


#### Project final presentation and report

After completing this presentation and report, students should be able to:

* Collaborate in a team to author a report and presentation
* Evaluate and defend their choice of machine learning methods

After the competition ends, students within each project team will collaborate to produce a final report and presentation that synthesizes the best aspects of all the individual analyses. 
Reports should include Introduction, Methods, Results, and Discussion sections, and should be long enough to thoroughly cover all of those topics.
Because at this point the course projects are already implemented as narrative documents, they should be relatively straightforward to convert to a report.

Reports are **required** to be prepared using the [Manubot](https://manubot.org/) manuscript preparation system, which is an alternative to MS Word. 
This may seem cruel and unusual, but there are two reasons:

1. Manubot makes extenstive use of Markdown, Git, and Github, so using it reinforces the skills we are learning in class, and 
2. Github has a mechanism for [tracking contributions](https://github.com/uiceds/syllabus/graphs/contributors), which allows the instructor to grade project members according to their level of contribution.

The presentation should cover the material in the report and be 10–12 minutes in length.
One person or multiple people can present.
The presentation will be stopped at 12 minutes regardless of whether it's finished.

##### Final presentation and report rubric

|  | Exceptional (100%) | Satisfactory (85%) | Needs work (70%) | Incomplete (<60%) 
| -- | -- | --   | --           | --         | -- 
| Writing (10 pts) | All required sections are present, well organized, and clearly written | There are minor defects in organization or clarity | There are substantial defects in organization or clarity | Not all required sections are present or interpretable 
| Graphical representation (10 pts) | Uses best practices for graphical display in all cases | Graphics mostly follow best practices, with some exceptions | Graphics are interpretable but do not follow best practices | Graphics are not interpretable 
| Oral presentation (5 pts) | Presentation is well organized, complete, and succinct | Minor issues with clarity, organization, or rambling | Poor organization or significantly too long | Presentation is not given 

##### Participation multiplier

The overall presentation and report grade will be multiplied by the following percent, determined by activity on github and in presentation:

* 1.0: Among the most active contributors to the project
* 0.85: Substantially lower contribution than the most active members
* 0.7: No apparent contribution
* 0.0: Statement from all team members that member did not contribute at all.

##### MS Word multiplier

Teams not using Manubot will have their presentation and report score multiplied by 0.9.